# UFOs

## Overview of Project
Pewlett Hackard is a large company with several thousand employees.  The company has been around for a long time and with so many baby boomers as employees there is a very high likelihood that retirement will begin to occur at a high rate.  Because of this likelihood the company is planning for the future by offering a retirement package for those who meet certain criteria and strategizing about which positions will need to filled as there will be thousands of job openings due to the retirements.

I have been tasked to work with a HR analyst to perform employee research.  Analysis and answers are needed to provide to management for the following questions:  Who will be retiring in the next few years? And how many positions will Pewlett Hackard need to fill?  The employee data is only available in the form of six CSV files because the company has been mainly using Excel and VBA to work with the data.  But a decision has been made to update methods to use SQL which will create considerable efficiencies and reporting capabilities for the large HR dataset.  The task is to build an employee database with SQL by applying data modeling, engineering, and analysis skills.  After sucessfully building the employee database with SQL the initial information and analysis ask was received postively by management.  Realizing the reporting capabilities using SQL from their initial requests, management is requesting additional information and analysis to assist their decsion making for future HR needs.

### Purpose
The purpose of this project is to enhance the filtering functionality for the end user so that a more in-depth analysis of UFO sightings can be performed with the data set.  In addition to the "date" filter provided in the initial web site build "city", "state", "country" and "shape" filters will be created and made available for the end user.  The enhanced filtering will give the end user the ability to fine tune searches to meet their analysis needs.
